---
Topics:
  - "[[01 - Networking]]"
  - "[[01 - Pentesting]]"
  - "[[01 - Programming]]"
  - "[[01 - Red Team]]"
Types:
  - "[[02 - Documentation]]"
tags:
  - KM4OP
date created: Sunday, March 17th 2024
date modified: Wednesday, July 3rd 2024
---

# 0. Preface

Hello, my name is [Rafael Pimentel](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rafa-pimentel/), and I'm a cybersecurity student. I saw the necessity to make this course because of a general lack of orientation towards taking notes and managing your knowledge in a hacking context.

Before diving into offensive security, I explored various disciplines, including bodyweight fitness, nutrition, and music production. Starting each journey independently, I became proficient in these areas. However, a recurring challenge was my failure to maintain comprehensive notes to keep track of my knowledge. Despite retaining crucial details, *much of the knowledge I acquired faded over time*.

My transition to cybersecurity began in mid-2022, moving from music production with no prior experience. Under the mentorship of my brother, [Robert Pimentel](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pimentelrobert1), we designed a path to success in this new field. My certification journey started with the eJPT (INE) to introduce me to the basics, followed by the OSCP (Offsec) to prepare for HR interviews. I then delved into Active Directory with CRTO (ZeroPoint Security) and CRTE (Altered Security) and aimed to complete the OSEP (Offsec) as the culmination of my short-term certification goals. After achieving these milestones, I planned to start my studies at WGU, a college renowned for its IT programs.

Embracing this new challenge was exciting for me. Determined not to repeat past mistakes, I sought a *reliable method to document my newly acquired knowledge*. That's when Obsidian caught my attention, recommended and mentioned by various offensive security professionals I respect. I decided to give it a shot and have been using it ever since.

This course is designed to provide you with *knowledge management systems/methodologies* in a straightforward and efficient way. While my focus is on ethical hacking, the principles and strategies shared here will benefit anyone pursuing a college degree or a challenging certification.