---
Topics:
  - "[[01 - Networking]]"
  - "[[01 - Pentesting]]"
  - "[[01 - Programming]]"
  - "[[01 - Red Team]]"
Types:
  - "[[02 - Documentation]]"
tags:
  - KM4OP
date created: Sunday, March 17th 2024
date modified: Thursday, January 16th 2025
---

# 1. Introduction to Obsidian

I prefer using Obsidian[^1] for note-taking because of its *flexibility*. The ability to customize the user interface, functionality, and workflows is crucial when spending countless hours studying and taking notes on a computer. Obsidian excels in offering these options with ease.

You can install Obsidian on various platforms, including Mac, Windows, Linux, and mobile devices. While iPhone users need Obsidian Sync, Android users can access it for free.

For those unfamiliar with Obsidian, I highly recommend spending some time with the official documentation[^2]. The creators have done an exceptional job in explaining the application's functionality. Initially, I considered explaining the installation process and basic features myself, but I realized it would only duplicate the excellent information already available.

Moving forward, I'll assume you've read the documentation and are familiar with basic navigation within the app.

## 1.1. My Note-Taking Strategy

How I approach note-taking is by *prioritizing simplicity, scalability, and automation*. This is achieved by following different practices:

- Keeping a *comprehensive folder structure* throughout the vault
- Keeping a *general note structure*
- Categorizing notes in *few categories* as possible
- The use of *custom templates* for note creation

If you already know Zettelkasten[^3], you will know that the use of categories at all is highly discouraged[^4] however I recommend you *stick to whatever methodology feels more natural to yourself* and avoid rules that kill your productivity.

> Because of how vast my vault has come to be, at some point I ditched the idea of not using categories and made a compromise of using only four categories. This is because of the inherent difference between particularly different topics such as "programming" and "pentesting" notes for example.

[^1]: [Download - Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/download)
[^2]: [Home - Obsidian Help](https://help.obsidian.md/Home)
[^3]: [Why Categories for Your Note Archive are a Bad Idea • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/no-categories/)
[^4]: [Getting Started • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/overview/)