---
Topics:
  - "[[01 - Networking]]"
  - "[[01 - Pentesting]]"
  - "[[01 - Programming]]"
  - "[[01 - Red Team]]"
Types:
  - "[[02 - Documentation]]"
tags:
  - KM4OP
date created: Sunday, March 17th 2024
date modified: Thursday, January 16th 2025
---

# 3. Note Types

As previously discussed, the structured approach to notetaking encompasses *four distinct types of notes*:

- Cheatsheets
- Documentation
- Techniques
- Write-Ups

Each type has a tailored layout to facilitate efficiency and organization. Below is a brief exploration of each note type and the role of the note generator script in creating new notes.

## 3.1. Cheatsheet Notes

**Cheatsheet notes** are practical and concise, primarily containing commands and brief instructions to execute various tasks. These notes are designed for *quick reference*, *avoiding the use of detailed theoretical explanations*. They can be personal compilations or adaptations from resources found online, such as a "Windows Privilege Escalation Cheatsheet".

## 3.2. Documentation Notes

**Documentation notes** are *comprehensive records* that include tool documentation, theoretical concepts (like understanding what Active Directory is), and programming languages' syntax and usage. These notes serve as a knowledge base, offering *in-depth explanations and details*.

## 3.3. Techniques Notes

**Technique notes** document *specific methodologies* related to penetration testing, red team, or purple team operations. They are structured to include a dedicated MITRE classification table and detailed steps for reproduction, among other critical sections. These notes are invaluable for methodical practice and training.

> If you're a security professional working in a different area than mine, I recommend customizing the "Technique Note" template to include a classification table that suits your specific requirements.

## 3.4. Write-Ups Notes

**Write-ups notes** document the *process and findings from hacking activities*, such as CTFs and exams.

## 3.5. Naming Convention

When it comes to naming notes, *practices vary widely*. Some people prefer to start their note names with the date[^1], while others adopt a more relaxed approach[^2]; I fall into the second group.

For organizing folders, however, I prefer to prefix their names with a number for better organization and accessibility. As for naming individual notes, I generally don't adhere to a strict convention, with a few exceptions. Specifically, for *topics*, *types*, and *templates* (which I'll discuss in the following section), I do use a prefix before the note name. This helps in *quickly identifying these as special notes* with specific purposes.

[^1]: [Introduction - Templater](https://silentvoid13.github.io/Templater/introduction.html)
[^2]: [Importance of naming with zettelkasten IDs? - Knowledge management - Obsidian Forum](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/importance-of-naming-with-zettelkasten-ids/16140)